update Rollups process (#775)
rust-lang/rust-forge: src/release/rollups.md

   `rollup=iffy` PRs. We should try as much as possible to avoid risking
   to hit regressions (bugs or perf).  Also consider that contributors
   often forget to tag things with rollup=never, when they should have
   done so, so when PRs are not explicitly tagged with rollup, be extra
   careful. Also carefully consider the area of the compiler the PRs touch.
   Two diagnostic PRs may actually conflict with each other, as they both 
   change compiler output, which causes failures in each other's tests, 
   when both of them are merged together in a rollup without causing git merge-conflicts.
   In this case the older PR should be given the privilege to merge first 
   and the newer PR should then be rebased as needed.

2. Run the following command in the pull request thread:

   ```
   @bors r+ rollup=never p=5
   ````

   Tools and subtree syncs should use `p=5`, like rollups, so they interleave between rollups, as
   tools and subtree syncs are typically more tricky to fix than rebasing PRs.
   As the only exception, you shall chose a minimally higher priority (`x+1`) if a PR you include (such as a subtree sync) is already of `p=x`,

>    with the purpose of ensuring that the rollup is tested earlier than subtree sync it includes, as long as you don't skip over another rollup that is already waiting in queue.

Reviewer: This doesn't really make sense. I think there are plenty of cases where it's valid to make a rollup that's larger than the ones that are queued and give it higher priority.

I think the tone should be softened to urge the rollup maker to *consider* rollups that are already queued, but any hard suggestions here I'm afraid are just going to be used to justify closing people's rollups for no good reason.

Reviewer: > To me it sounds a bit like you're saying "I want to be able invalidate other peoples rollups at any time" (by overwriting them with my larger rollup) but at the same time I "I don't want to have my own rollup closed for doing so".

First of all, claiming that this is "invalidating" other people's rollups or calling this "oneupping" makes it seem like this is a competition or race or something, which it definitely is not 😸

What I'm saying is that these should be guidelines for well-informed contributors to understand how to use rollups to help things get merged, not strict rules that must be followed to the tee. After all, I think it's very useful to give individuals **discretion** that is weighed against different things like what's queued and how busy the week is going and factors like that.

> In what situations do you deem it critical to override someones rollup?

Well, I think it's a bit excessive to call it "critical", but there are (as of writing this comment I think) 23 rollup=always PRs in the queue right now. I think testing all of them in parallel with a couple of rollup=maybe PRs outweighs the benefit of testing a 8 PR rollup regardless of what it contains. That's what I mean by discretion above.

Of course there is always a risk that large rollups fail to merge, but I think it's unnecessary to have to wait for other smaller rollups to merge first *just* because they were created first. If they conflict with the larger rollup and that one does successfully merge, then great! We all win, since we're all just trying to get our PRs merged after all 😃 And if it doesn't, then we fall back to the smaller rollup.

I'm very much of the opinion that this is a non-problem because this is obviously not something that is happening all the time.

## Selecting Pull Requests

The queue is sorted by rollup status. In general:

- A good rollup contains a bunch of `maybe` (unmarked) PRs, and a large pile of `always` PRs.
  You can include one or two `iffy` PRs to amortize the cost of testing full CI.
- If you have a lot of time, you can also make a rollup just from `iffy` PRs (if there are enough of
  them) and weed out the failures one by one.
- A rollup must **never** include `rollup=never` PRs.

The actual absolute size of the rollup can depend based on experience and current length of the queue.
People new to making rollups might start with including 1 `iffy`, 2 `maybe`s, and 4 `always`s. Usually 6-8 PRs per rollup is a good compromise.
There is rarely a need to roll up more than 15 PRs at once (unless there are >40 PRs waiting the queue), keep in mind that we also try to minimize regressions per merge.

Limit the size of rollups, *even if* the queue is backed up. Large rollups run the risk of failing
or merge conflicts, and smaller rollups keep potential regressions [bisectable]. On average, rollups
are 7 PRs large, often varying from 5 to 12 depending on the number of `rollup=always` PRs that can

> be included. Rollups of 15+ prs can be made for the sake of weeding out failures via try-jobs but should not be put into the merge queue as to not block other prs from being merged in the meantime

Reviewer: if you wanna soften in the tone to encourage people to test rollups independently if they are at a high risk to merge, that's great, but you're asking for people to do extra work because of your personal preference of rollup size.

> be included. Rollups of 15+ prs can be made for the sake of weeding out failures via try-jobs but should not be put into the merge queue as to not block other prs from being merged in the meantime

Author: I have made (what I deem) "high-risk" rollups tested via try jobs in the past just to weed out failures and I found it pretty useful because then I don't unnecessarily block the queue. 
What exactly are you concerned about?

> be included. Rollups of 15+ prs can be made for the sake of weeding out failures via try-jobs but should not be put into the merge queue as to not block other prs from being merged in the meantime

Reviewer: One more good idea if you really care about overlapping rollups not being made, at least not accidentally or without justification, is asking the bors2 folks if they could detect and mark PRs that are currently part of rollups that are currently mergeable + accepted. Then people could make disjoint rollups more easily; right now it's a pretty large ask to do. Paired with CI-level testing it would be very beneficial to weed out bad PRs and improve our merge rate in general.

   use "rollup" button to make a rollup pull request.

   **Important note**:  consider for addition PRs marked as
   `rollup=always`, `rollup=maybe` and `rollup=iffy`, based on the
   review policies of [the Rollups section].  Be extra careful when
   deciding what to include, in particular on `rollup=maybe` and
   `rollup=iffy` PRs. We should try as much as possible to avoid risking
   to hit regressions (bugs or perf).  Also consider that contributors
   often forget to tag things with rollup=never, when they should have
   done so, so when PRs are not explicitly tagged with rollup, be extra
   careful. Also carefully consider the area of the compiler the PRs touch.
   Two diagnostic PRs may actually conflict with each other, as they both 
   change compiler output, which causes failures in each other's tests, 
   when both of them are merged together in a rollup without causing git merge-conflicts.
   In this case the older PR should be given the privilege to merge first 
   and the newer PR should then be rebased as needed.

2. Run the following command in the pull request thread:

    ```
    @bors r+ rollup=never p=5
    ````

>    where 5 is the number of PRs contained in your rollup.

Reviewer 2: I have been thinking that what the existing documentation says (rollups always p=5) might be better than p=pr_count that is usually done. There are a lot of cases where 7 PRs get rolled up with p=7 and sit in the queue for a number of hours, only to be leapfrogged by a p=8 rollup that contains much newer PRs. Seems to have a tendency to break FIFO.

Author: Yes, I noticed a certain someone was doing this a lot. That's why I added the "Rollups should not overlap" rule.

Reviewer 3: > Yes, I noticed a certain someone was doing this a lot. That's why I added the "Rollups should not overlap" rule.

Again, there's no need to throw shade when we can just ping the contributors who are assigning rollup p>5 (I've done this a couple of times myself) and just point them to p=5 being the good default and having that respect queue order. It helps to elaborate on the choice of p=5 and not arbitrary p=N where N is the number of PRs rolled up.

Reviewer 3: (Thanks for the edits)

Just wanted to say, we should make these rollup advice as accessible and useful to onboard other contributors w/ r+ perms who may want to help to do rollups too.

Author: Maybe we should have something like
tool/subtree updates `p=5` and rollups `p=5` as default, so that we still have some headroom to `4` or `3` things if needed

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I feel like the tool/subtree updates should receive same priority as rollups and all pinned at `p=5` exactly, good point.

Author: mmh imo it makes sense to prioritise subtree/module updates over rollups since doing a tool sync is often more complicated than rebasing PRs

Reviewer 3: Just, they should receive a consistent `p` between themselves, but otherwise it feels whatever to me.

Reviewer 3: Adjusted this to say sth like

> Tools and subtree syncs should use `p=5`, like rollups, so they interleave between rollups, as tools and subtree syncs are typically more tricky to fix than rebasing PRs.

Author: I'm not sure anymore if there is an easy way to generalize :sweat_smile: 

some subtrees are mostly self-contained and risk free to rollup, other (like clippy) are prone to creating merge conflicts and changes in tests, some, like cargo may also have test failures which the pre merge ci cannot catch.

some subtrees are always rollup=never'd by the author so they cannot be rolled up

3. If the rollup fails, use the logs rust-log-analyzer
   provides to bisect the failure to a specific PR and
   `@bors r-` the PR. If the PR is running, you need to do `@bors r- retry`. Otherwise,
   your rollup succeeded. If it did, proceed to the next rollup (every now and
   then let `rollup=never/iffy` and toolstate PRs progress).
4. Recreate the rollup without the offending PR starting again from **1.**. 
   There's a link in the rollup PR's body to automatically prefill the rollup UI 
   with the existing PRs (minus any PRs that have been `r-`d)
   Try avoiding adding any additional PR to the current "batch" as this
   unnecessarily increases the chance of test failures.
   Rollups should not overlap, if a PR is already contained in a rollup that is not closed,
   it should not be added to another different rollup at the same time.
   If a rollup fails and you are not sure which PR caused the problem, 
   you may bisect the rollup and split it up into two rollups until the offending PR becomes clear.

## Selecting Pull Requests

> The queue is sorted by rollup status. In general, a good rollup contains a bunch of `maybe` (unmarked) PRs, and a large pile of `always` PRs. You can include one or two `iffy` PRs if you are confident that they will pass. 

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure including "iffy" PRs is a good idea in rollups. I personally tend to never includ them.

Reviewer: That's kinda the whole reason we have `"iffy"`. If you never include them, then they may as well be marked `"never"`.

Reviewer 4: Fair point.

Reviewer 3: I personally consider `iffy` PRs to be the whole point of rollups, tbh. Some PRs are clearly `rollup=never` if you are almost *certain* they will fail, but some of the `iffy` PRs are for the "it can fail, but we're not too sure" cases: it's great if it passes full CI, in which case we saved a bunch of time. It's also great if it fails full CI, in which case the failure time is amortized.

Reviewer 3: I adjusted this to say

> You can include one or two `iffy` PRs to amortize the cost of testing full CI.

If you have a lot of time, you can also make a rollup just from `iffy` PRs (if there are enough of them) and weed out the failures one by one.
A rollup should never include `rollup=never` PRs.

The actual absolute size of the rollup can depend based on experience and current length of the queue.
People new to making rollups might start with including 1 `iffy`, 2 `maybe`s, and 4 `always`s. Usually 6-8 PRs per rollup is a good compromise.
There is rarely a need to roll up more than 10 PRs at once (unless there are >30 PRs waiting the queue), keep in mind that we also try to minimize regressions per merge.

> Don't try to make mega-rollups (15-20 PRs that merge half or more of the entire queue all at once) to keep the number of perf or bug regressions per merge as low as possible and keep potential regressions [bisectable].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limit the size of rollups, even if the queue is backed up -- large rollups run the risk of failing or merge conflicts, and smaller rollups keep potential regressions [bisectable]. On average, rollups are <N> PRs large, often varying from <N - M> to <N + M> depending on the number of `rollup=always` PRs that can be included. 
```

Reviewer: choose some value for `N` and `M`.

Reviewer 5: note that thanks to unrolled builds, bisection can be done within a roll-up and cargo bisect rustc

Reviewer 3: > note that thanks to unrolled builds, bisection can be done within a roll-up and cargo bisect rustc does that

But I think there is some time limit for rollup artifacts right? Something like 6 months?

Reviewer 6: There is [or at least was] a time limit for *all* artifacts; for old regressions we only get nightly granularity AFAIR

Reviewer 3: Adopted this wording. I picked ~7 as the average size, with a usual bound of [5, 10] PRs.

> Limit the size of rollups, *even if* the queue is backed up. Large rollups run the risk of failing
or merge conflicts, and smaller rollups keep potential regressions [bisectable]. On average, rollups
are 7 PRs large, often varying from 5 to 10 depending on the number of `rollup=always` PRs that can
be included.

Try to be fair with rollups: Rollups are a way for things to jump the queue. For `rollup=maybe` PRs, try to include the oldest one (at the top of the section) so that newer PRs aren't jumping the queue over older PRs entirely. You don't have to include every PR older than PRs included in your rollup, but try to include the oldest. Similar to the perspective around `iffy`, it's useful to look at a rollup as a way for other PRs to piggyback on the CI cycle of the oldest PR in queue.
Very old (several months) or very large PRs that are extremely prone to merge conflicts may also be given a slight priority bump (`p=1`) to finally get them out of the queue without having to rebase them repeatedly.
Ultimately, we want to keep the number of regressions per merge at a minimum while also minimizing the amount of time between approval and the final merge of a PR, to avoid unnecessary merge conflicts and rebases.

## Failed rollups
If the rollup has failed, run the `@bors retry` command if the
failure was spurious (e.g. due to a network problem or a timeout).
There may be a matching `CI-spurious-fail-.*` label that you can use to tag the PR as such, to help discover common fail patterns.

> If it wasn't spurious, find the offending PR and throw it out by copying a link to the rust-logs-analyzer comment,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it wasn't spurious, find the offending PR and return it to the author to be fixed by copying a link to the rust-log-analyzer comment,
```

Reviewer 3: Fixed

and leaving a comment like `Failed in <link_to_comment>, @bors r-`.
In case the log-analyzer does not give any meaningful output, you can directly open the ci-logs (the `(web)` link), find the point where the error was thrown
and directly copy the URL to the respective line in the log output.
Hopefully, the author or reviewer will give feedback to get the PR fixed or confirm that it's not
at fault. The failed rollup PR should then be closed.

Once you've removed the offending PR, recreate your rollup without it (see 1.).
Merge one batch of PRs by throwing out the failures one by one instead of adding new PRs to it, as this may introduce additional points of failure.

Sometimes however, it is hard to find the offending PR. If so, use your intuition
to avoid the PRs that you suspect are the problem and recreate the rollup.
Another strategy is to raise the priority of the PRs you suspect,
mark them as `rollup=never` (or `iffy`) and let bors test them standalone to dismiss

> or confirm your hypothesis, or split the rollup into 2 smaller ones until are certain of the failure cause. If a PR was found to be the cause and other PRs were "wrongfully" `iffy`'d, they can of course be reprioritised as `maybe` again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or confirm your hypothesis, or split the rollup into 2 smaller ones until you are certain of the failure cause. If a PR was found to be the cause and other PRs were "wrongfully" marked `iffy`, they can of course be reprioritised as `maybe` again with `@bors rollup=maybe` or `@bors rollup-`.
```

Reviewer 3: Fixed

> If a PR in a rollup continues to fail you can run the `@bors rollup=never` command to
> never rollup the PR in question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a PR in a rollup continues to fail you can run the `@bors rollup=never` command to
ensure the PR gets tested independently, since it's likely it will fail again in the future.
```

Reviewer 3: Fixed
